Access Control	Refers to mechanisms and policies that restrict access to computer resources. An access control list (ACL), for example, specifies what operations different users can perform on specific files and directories.  
Adjacent (A)	Data that is hyper local (relevant to a geographic area within ~1 minute travel distance)  
Administrator	These are the operators that set control parameters, implement system policies, monitor system configuration, and make changes to the system as needed.  
Aggregation	The process of combining data elements of similar format into a single data element that is a statistical representation of the original elements.  
Analysis	The process of studying a system by partitioning the system into parts (functions, components, or objects) and determining how the parts relate to each other.  
Anonymity	Lacking individuality, distinction, and “recogniz ability” within message exchanges.
Anonymous Certificate	A certificate which contains a pseudonym of the System User instead of his real identity in the subject of the certificate and thus prevents other System Users from identifying the certificate owner  when the certificate is used to sign or encrypt a message in the connected vehicle program. The real identity of the anonymous certificates can be traced by Authorized System Operators by using the services of Registration Authority and Certification Authority.  
APDU	Application Protocol Data Unit.  This is a defined data structure that is transferred at a peer level between two applications.  
Application	One or more pieces of software designed to perform some specific function; it is a configuration of interacting Engineering Objects. A computer software program with an interface, enabling people to use a computer as a tool to accomplish a specific task.  
Application User	A user who interfaces with Application Layer software for a desired function or feature.  
Assumption	A judgment about unknown factors and the future which is made in analyzing alternative courses of action.  
Authenticate	The process of ensuring that an APDU originated from a source identified within the message 
Authenticate-ability	The ability of the receiver of information to authenticate the sender’s identity or trustworthiness to send data within the domain. If required, this can be accomplished by verifying the incoming message has been digitally ‘signed’ by the sender.  
Authentication	The process of determining the identity of a user that is attempting to access a network.  
Authenticity	The quality of being genuine or authentic; which is to have the origin supported by unquestionable evidence; authenticated; verified. This includes whether the software or hardware came from an authorized source.
Authorization	The process of determining what types of activities or access are permitted on a network. Usually used in the context of authentication: once you have authenticated a user, they may be authorized to have access to a specific service.  
Available	Ready or able to be used  
Backup	The ability of one System Element replacing another System Element’s functionality upon the failure of that System Element.  
Bad Actor	A role played by a user or another system that provides false or misleading data, operates in such a fashion as to impede other users, operates outside of its authorized scope.  
Boundaries	The area of management and control for a System  or Object. It could be by latitude/longitude or by county or by regional jurisdictions.  
Broadcast	A flow where the initiator sends information on a predefined communications channel using a protocol that enables others who know how to listen to that channel to receive the information. One -to-many communication, with no dialog.  
Cardinality	The characterization of the relationship between the number of sender(s) and receiver(s) of a data exchange.  (e.g.  broadcast (one- to-many) unicast (one to one))
Center	An entity that provides application, management, administrative, and support functions from a fixed location not in proximity to the road network. The terms “back office” and “center” are used interchangeably. Center is a traditionally a transportation -focused term, evoking management centers to support transportation needs, while back office generally refers to commercial applications. From the perspective of this ConOps Specification these are considered the same.  
Concept of Operations (ConOps)	A user -oriented document that describes a system’s operational characteristics from the end user’s viewpoint.  
Confidentiality	The property of being unable to read PDU contents by any listener that is not the intended receiver  
Configurable Parameter	Non-static data that can be adjustable and updated when needed.  
Configuration	Data that is used to customize the operational environment for a System Element or System User, or the System as a whole  
Configure	The process of selecting from a set of option(s) or alternative values in order to create a specific operational environment.  
Constraint	An externally imposed limitation on system requirements, design, or implementation or on the process used to develop or modify a system. A constraint is a factor that lies outside – but has a direct impact on – a system design effort. Constraints may relate to laws and regulations or technological, socio -political, financial, or operational factors.  
Continental (C)	Data that is continental in scope.  
Contract	In project management, a legally binding document agreed upon by the customer and the hardware or software developer or supplier; includes the technical, organizational, cost, and/or scheduling requirement s of a project.  
Control	To exercise influence over.  
Coverage Area	A geographic jurisdiction within which the System provides services.  
Cyber Address	The cyber or network address of a Unified Implementation of the Reference Architecture object.  
Data Consumer	A user or system that is receiving or using data from another user or system. Any Unified Implementation of the Reference Architecture object that registers with and subsequently requests and receives delivery of data from a data warehouse.  
Data Provider	Any Unified Implementation of the Reference Architecture object that registers with and subsequently deposits data into a data warehouse A System User that is supplying or transmitting data to another user or system. A data provider is likel y to be an aggregator of data.  
Data Warehouse	A data storage facility that supports the input (deposit) and retrieval (delivery) of clearly defined data objects.  This can be design and implemented in a variety of ways, including publish/subscribe and a traditional query based database.  
Decrypt	To decode or decipher data that has previously been encoded in such a way to secure its contents from unauthorized access. See Encryption.  
Deployment Benefits	This term refers to the measures of effectiveness used by the NYCDOT and the Independent Evaluator on a periodic basis to assess the benefits realized from the utilization of connected vehicle technology and applications within the project’s deployment areas.
Digital Certificate or Signature	A digital certificate is an electronic "identification card" that establishes your credentials when doing business or other transactions on the Web. It is issued by a certification authority. It contains your name, a serial number, expiration dates, a copy  of the certificate holder's public key (used for encrypting messages and digital signatures), and the digital signature of the certificate -issuing authority so that a recipient can verify that the certificate is real. Note: From the SysAdmin, Audit, Netwo rk, Security Institute  website - www.sans.org. 
DNS (Domain Name System)	The internet protocol for mapping host names, domain names,  and aliases to IP addresses.  
Encryption	Scrambling data in such a way that it can only  be unscrambled through the application of the correct cryptographic key.  
End-User	The ultimate user of a product or service, especially of a computer system, application, or network.  
Environment	The circumstances, objects, and conditions that surround a system to be built; includes technical, political, commercial, cultural, organizational, and physical influences as well as standards and policies that govern what a system must do or how it will do it.  
Extensibility	The ability to add or modify functionality or features with little or no design changes.  
Field	These are intelligent infrastructure distributed near or along the transportation network which perform surveillance (e.g.  traffic detectors, cameras), traffic control (e.g. signal controllers), information provision (e.g. Dynamic Message Signs (DMS)) and local transaction (e.g., tolling, parking) functions. Typically, their operation is governed by transportation management functions running in back offices. Field also includes RSU and other non- DSRC wireless communications infrastructure that provides communications between Mobile elements and fixed infrastructure.  
Forwarding	The process of forward sending data onto another entity (system user) without modifying or storing the data for any substantial length of time.  
Functionality  The capabilities of the various computational, user interfaces, input, output, data management, and other features provided by a product.  
Geo-Fence	An electronic set of geo reference points that form a bounded geographic region.  
Geo-Referencing	The process of scaling, rotating, translating and de -skewing the image to match a particular size and position. To define something in terms of its physical location in space.  
Hardware	Hardware refers to the physical parts of a computer and related devices. Internal hardware devices include motherboards, hard drives, and memory. External hardware devices include monitors, keyboards, mice, printers, and sc anners.  
Historic (H)	Transient Data that is historical (relevant at the time of reporting for an indefinite interval).  
Identity Certificate	A certificate that uses a digital signature to bind a public key with an identity - information such as the name of a person or an organization, their address, and so forth. The certificate can be used to verify that a public key belongs to an individual.
Integrity	To maintain a system that is secure, complete,  and conforming to an acceptable conduct without being vulnerable and corruptible. The property of being certain that a message’s contents are the same at the receiver as at the sender.  
Interconnect	The communications link between two architectural objects.  
Internet	An interconnected system of networks t hat connects computers around the world via the TCP/IP protocol.  
Issuance	For Anonymous Certificates: Blocks of certificates for a System User which are generated by the Certificate Authority (CA) with mappings between the System User’s real identity and the pseudo- identity in the certificates are maintained by the Registration Authority (RA).  For Identity Certificates: Blocks of certificates for a System User which are generated by the Certificate Authority (CA) with information such as the name of a pers on or an organization, their address, etc., maintained by the Registration Authority (RA).  Both certificates are installed in the System User equipment by online (through a communication channel with encrypted communications) or  offline (mechanisms such as USB download) mechanisms.  
Jurisdictional Scope	The power, right, or authority to interpret and apply the law within the limits or territory which authority may be exercised.  
Link	A Link is the locus of relations among Nodes. It provides interconnections between Nodes for communication and coordination. It may be implemented by a wired connection or with some radio frequency (RF) or optical communications media. Links implement the primary function of transporting data. Links connect to Nodes at a Port.
Local (L)	Data that is local (relevant to a geographic area within 10 minute travel distance)  
Logical Security	Safeguards that include user identification and password access, authentication, access rights and authority levels.  
Misbehaving User	A user who exhibits misbehavior.  
Misbehavior	The act of providing false or misleading data, operating in such a fashion as to impede other users, or to operate outside of their authorized scope.   This includes suspicions behavior as in wrong mes sage types or frequencies, invalid logins and unauthorized access, or incorrect signed or encrypted messages. etc.; either purposeful or unintended 
Misbehavior Information	Includes Misbehavior Reports from System Users, as well as other improper System User acts, such as sending wrong message types, invalid logins, unauthorized access, incorrectly signed messages,  and other inappropriate System User behavior.  
Misbehavior Report	Data from a System User identifying suspicious behavior from another System User that can be characterized as misbehavior.  
Mobile	These are vehicle types (private/personal, trucks, transit, emergency, commercial, maintenance, and construction vehicles) as well as non- vehicle-based platforms including portable personal devices (smartphones, PDAs, tablets, etc.) used by travelers (vehicle operators, passengers, cyclists, pedestrians, etc.) to provide and receive transportation information 
National (N)	Data that is national in scope.
Non-repudiation	The property whereby a PDU is constructed in such a way that the PDU sender cannot effectively deny having been the sender of that PDU; and the PDU receiver cannot effectively deny having received a particul ar PDU.  
Now (N)	Transient Data that is hyper current (relevant at the time of reporting for applications that require sub- second response).  
On-Board Equipment (OBE)	Computer modules, display and a DSRC radio, that is installed and embedded into vehicles which provide an interface to vehicular sensors, as well as a wireless communication interface to the roadside and back office environment.  
Operational Data Environment	The ODE consist of several different USDOT developed smart data routers brokering processed data between various data sources, including the Unified Implementation of the Reference Architecture, and a variety of data users (e.g. RDE, TMCs).  As a smart data router, the ODE routes data from disparate data sources to software applications (including CV applications) that have placed data subscription requests to the ODE.  The ODE also performs necessary security / credential checks and, as needed, data val uation, aggregation, integration and propagation functions.   
Operators	These are the day-to-day users of the System that monitor the health of the system components, adjust parameters to improve performance, and collect and report statistics of the overall system.  
Permission	Authorization granted to do something. From the System’s perspective, permissions are granted to System Users and Operators determining what actions they are allowed to take when interacting with the System.  
Persistent Connection	A connection between two networked devices that remains open after the initial request is completed, to handle multiple requests thereafter. This reduces resource overhead of re- establishing connections for each message sent and received. This is opposite of  Session-oriented Connection.  
Physical Security	Safeguards to deny access to unauthorized personnel (including attackers or even accidental intruders) from physically accessing a building, facility, resource, or stored information.   This can range from simply a locked door to badge entry with armed security guards  
Priority	A rank order of status, activities, or tasks. Priority is particularly important when resources are limited.  
Privacy	The ability of an individual to seclude information about themselves, and thereby reveal information about themselves selectively.  
Process	A series of actions, changes, or functions bringing about a result.  
Protocol Data Unit (PDU)	A defined data structure that is transferred at a peer level between corresponding software entities functioning at the same layer in the OSI standard model which are operating on different computing platforms that are interconnected via communications media .  
Public Key	In cryptography, a public key is a value provided by some desig nated authority as an encryption key that, combined with a private key derived from the public key, can be used to effectively encrypt messages and digitally sign them. The use of combined public and private keys is known as asymmetric cryptography. A system for using public keys is called a public key infrastructure (PKI).  
Recent (R)	Transient Data that is current (relevant at the time of reporting for applications that do not require sub -second response).
Regional (R)	Data that is regional (relevant to a geographic area within ~30 minute travel distance)  
Registry	A repository for maintaining data requester’s information including the type of data they are subscribing to, their address, etc.  
Reliability	Providing consistent and dependable system output or results.  
Repackage Data	Data that is broken down for aggregation, parsing,  or sampling.  
Requirement (A)	A condition or capability needed by a user to solve a problem or achieve an objective. (B) A condition or capability that must be met or possessed by a system component to satisfy a contract, standard, specification, or other formally imposed document. (C) A documented representation of a condition or capability as in definition (A) or (B). (IEEE Std 610.12- 1990)  
Research Data Exchange	A web -based data resource provided by the USDOT ITS -JPO’s Real-Time Data Capture and Management (DCM) program which collects, manages, and provides archived and real -time multi -source and multi -modal data to support the development and testing of ITS applications.  
Scalability	The capable of being easily grown, expanded or upgraded upon demand without requiring a redesign.  
Scenario	A step -by-step description of a series of events that may occur concurrently or sequentially.  
Secure Storage	Encrypted or protected data that requires a user or a process to authenticate itself before accessing to the data. Secure storage persists when the power is turned off.  
Secure Transmission	To protect the transfer of confident ial or sensitive data usually by encryption, Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) or similar secure communications.  
Secure/Securely	Referring to storage, which consists of both logical and physical safeguards  
Session-oriented Connection	A connection between two networked devices that is established intermittently and to handle few requests thereafter. The connection is meant to be temporary lasting for minutes, hours, but likely not more than a day before it is closed.   This is opposite of Persistent Connection.  
Software	Software is a general term that describes computer programs. Terms such as software programs, applications, scripts, and instruction sets all fall under the category of computer software.  
States	A distinct system setting in which the same user input will produce different results than it would in other settings. The System as a whole is always in one state. A state is typically commanded or placed in that state by an operator. States are Installat ion, Operational, Maintenance, Training, and Standby.  
Static (S)	Data that is permanent (relevant at the time of reporting for an indefinite interval).  
Status	Anomalies, actions, intermittent and other conditions used to inform the System Operator for r eparation or maintenance.  
Subsystem	An integrated set of components that accomplish a clearly distinguishable set of functions with similar or related uses.  
Synchronization	the act or results of occurrence or operating at the same time or rate
System	A collection of interacting elements organized to accomplish a specified function or set of functions within a specified environment.  Typically the System Elements within the System are operationally self - contained but are interconnected and collaborate to meet the needs of the System and its Users.  A group of people, objects, and procedures constituted to achieve defined objectives of some operational role by performing specified functions. A complete system includes all of the associated equipment, facili ties, material, computer programs, firmware, technical documentation, services, and personnel required for operations and support to the degree necessary for self-sufficient use in its intended environment.  
System Element	A collection of interacting components organized to accomplish a specified function or set of functions within a specified environment. An object and procedures constituted to achieve defined objectives of some operational role by performing specified functions. A complet e system element includes all of the associated equipment, facilities, material, computer programs, firmware, technical documentation, services, and personnel required for operations and support to the degree necessary for self -sufficient use in its intended environment. An integrated set of components that accomplish a clearly distinguishable set of functions with similar or related uses.  
System Need	A capability that is identified and supported within the System to accomplish a specific goal or solve a problem  
System Performance	This term refers to the measures of effectiveness used by NYCDOT traffic management operations staff on a periodic basis to manage the on-going operation of the system.  
System Personnel	This represents the staff that operates and maintains the System. In addition to network managers and operations personnel, System Personnel includes the Administrators, Operators, Maintainers, Developers, Deployment teams, and Testers.  
System Requirements Specification (SyRS)	A structured collection of information that embodies the requirements of the system.  
System User	System Users refers to Mobile, Field, and Center Systems.  
Testers	These users verify the System’s operation when any changes are made to its operating hardware or software.  
Time	A measurable period during which an action, process or condition occurs.  
Time Synchronization	Calibration adjustment of date, hour, minutes,  and seconds for keeping the same time within a system.  
Time-of-Day	Current hours, minutes,  and seconds within a day.
Traceability	The identification and documentation of derivation paths (upward) and allocation or flow down paths (downward) of work products in the work product hierarchy. Important kinds of traceability include: to or from external sources to or from system requirements; to or from system requirements to or from lowest level requirements; to or from requirements to or from design; to or from design to or from implementation; to or from implementation to test; and to or from requirements to test.  
Transition	A passage from one state, stage, subject, or place to another  
Trust Credentials	A user’s authentication information which determines permissions and/or allowed actions with a system and other users.
Unicast	The sending of a message to a single network destination identified by a unique address.  
User	An individual who uses a computer, program, network, and related services of a hardware and/or software system, usually associated with granting that individual with an account and permissions.  
User Need	A capability that is identified to accomplish a specific goal or solve a problem that is to be supported by the system.  
Valid	When data values within a message are acceptable and logical (e.g., numbers fall within a range, nume ric data are all digits).  
Validate	To establish or confirm the correctness of the structure, format and/or contents of a data object.